# **HWID Activation**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Overview

-   How to use it? Please find the instructions [here](index.html#Download__How_to_use_it).

-   This activation is supported for Windows 10/11 only.

-   This activation does not store any files in your system.

-   This activation is a permanent activation for your system Hardware.

-   On a system, this activation can be created for all the supported editions, and all can be linked to Microsoft account without any issues.

-   Once a system is activated, this activation cannot be removed because the license is stored in the Microsoft servers and not in the user's system. MS checks the hardware ID (HWID) and if a license is found in their database, the system will automatically activate.

-   Any significant changes in the Hardware (such as a motherboard) may deactivate the system. It is possible to reactivate a system that was deactivated because of significant hardware changes, IF your activation, was linked to an online Microsoft account.

-   For activation to succeed, internet connectivity must be enabled. If you are trying to activate without these conditions being met, then the system will auto-activate later when the conditions are met.

-   Auto activation scenario after the Windows re-install:

    -   The Internet is required. (Only at the time of activation)

    -   The system will auto-activate if Retail (Consumer) media was used for the installation.

    -   The system will NOT auto-activate if VL (Business) media was used for the installation. In this case, the user will have to insert that windows edition Retail/OEM key (find keys below on this page) to activate, if the user doesn't wish to activate again using this script.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## How does it work?

-   In the official upgrade process from Windows 7 to Windows 10, Microsoft provides an HWID (digital license) activation for Windows 10 without any cost.

-   In the background, the upgrade process runs a file named `gatherosstate.exe` and it checks the license of current Windows if found activated, it generates a valid GenuineTicket.xml which is sent to Microsoft and in return, MS authorizes a license.

-   So if we just convince the `gatherosstate.exe` file that the conditions are met for ticket generation by fooling it, it will generate a valid ticket, which can be used to get the valid HWID (Digital license). The script here does exactly that to get the activation for free without any upgrade process.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Types of Tickets

There are many methods for ticket generation, however we can classify the ticket types in 3 categories.

1.  **Downlevel Ticket** - This is the simplest ticket generation process. In this method, ticket is signed by downlevel key by the system and the ticket's OSVersion is 10. If it's generated on Windows 10/11 then MS ideally aren't supposed to grant activation, however they do and method is continuously working from last 4-5 years. Almost every HWID activator (at the time of writing this) is based on this method.

2.  **Lockbox Ticket** - This is slightly a trickier method. The ticket is signed by Lockbox key by the system and the ticket's OSVersion is 10. This ticket generation process involves cleaning Clipsvc licenses and IdentityCRL registry key in the system. Due to some hiccups in the process, this method is not primarily used in MAS, however these are the types of tickets that are identical to the genuine ticket generated by system on activated Windows 10/11.

3.  **Universal Ticket** - In this method, we set the OSVersion =\<5 in the ticket and when we apply the ticket, system ignores the HWID in the ticket due to lower OSVersion and grant the activation anyway. This ticket can be applied on any system. These tickets can either be Downlevel or Lockbox type. MS ideally aren't supposed to grant activation, however they do.

Latest version of MAS is using Universal ticket method. Other ticket method scripts can be found in this repo [MAS-Legacy-Methods](https://github.com/massgravel/MAS-Legacy-Methods)

Now a question, can Microsoft block the new requests or revoke already established HWID license?

-   Revoking the license would be insane and will face many complications and risk of voiding valid licenses. However maybe they can block the new activation requests coming from Downlevel and Universal tickets. But the tools are working from 4-5 years and they don't seem to care much for consumer piracy; That's not where they get the most money from.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Supported Products

| Windows 10/11                    | Generic Retail/OEM/MAK Key      |
|:---------------------------------|:--------------------------------|
| Education                        | `YNMGQ-8RYV3-4PGQ3-C8XTP-7CFBY` |
| Education N                      | `84NGF-MHBT6-FXBX8-QWJK7-DRR8H` |
| Enterprise                       | `XGVPP-NMH47-7TTHJ-W3FW7-8HV2C` |
| Enterprise N                     | `3V6Q6-NQXCX-V8YXR-9QCYV-QPFCT` |
| Enterprise LTSB 2015             | `FWN7H-PF93Q-4GGP8-M8RF3-MDWWW` |
| Enterprise LTSB 2016             | `NK96Y-D9CD8-W44CQ-R8YTK-DYJWX` |
| Enterprise LTSC 2019             | `43TBQ-NH92J-XKTM7-KT3KK-P39PB` |
| Enterprise N LTSB 2015           | `NTX6B-BRYC2-K6786-F6MVQ-M7V2X` |
| Enterprise N LTSB 2016           | `2DBW3-N2PJG-MVHW3-G7TDK-9HKR4` |
| Home                             | `YTMG3-N6DKC-DKB77-7M9GH-8HVX7` |
| Home N                           | `4CPRK-NM3K3-X6XXQ-RXX86-WXCHW` |
| Home China                       | `N2434-X9D7W-8PF6X-8DV9T-8TYMD` |
| Home Single Language             | `BT79Q-G7N6G-PGBYW-4YWX6-6F4BT` |
| IoT Enterprise                   | `XQQYW-NFFMW-XJPBH-K8732-CKFFD` |
| IoT Enterprise LTSC 2021         | `QPM6N-7J2WJ-P88HH-P3YRH-YY74H` |
| IoT Enterprise LTSC Subscription | `J7NJW-V6KBM-CC8RW-Y29Y4-HQ2MJ` |
| Pro                              | `VK7JG-NPHTM-C97JM-9MPGT-3V66T` |
| Pro N                            | `2B87N-8KFHP-DKV6R-Y2C8J-PKCKT` |
| Pro Education                    | `8PTT6-RNW4C-6V7J2-C2D3X-MHBPB` |
| Pro Education N                  | `GJTYN-HDMQY-FRR76-HVGC7-QPF8P` |
| Pro for Workstations             | `DXG7C-N36C4-C4HTG-X4T3X-2YV77` |
| Pro N for Workstations           | `WYPNQ-8C467-V2W6J-TX4WX-WT2RQ` |
| S                                | `V3WVW-N2PV2-CGWC3-34QGF-VMJ2C` |
| S N                              | `NH9J3-68WK7-6FB93-4K3DF-DJ4F6` |
| SE                               | `K9VKN-3BGWV-Y624W-MCRMQ-BHDCD` |
| SE N                             | `KY7PN-VR6RX-83W6Y-6DDYQ-T6R4W` |
| Team                             | `XKCNC-J26Q9-KFHD2-FKTHY-KD72Y` |

**Notes:**

-   X86-X64 and ARM64 architecture systems are supported.

-   Any Evaluation version of Windows (i.e. 'EVAL' LTSB/C) cannot be activated.

-   IoTEnterpriseS (LTSC) 2021 key will be used to activate the unsupported EnterpriseS (LTSC) 2021 edition.

-   Windows Server does not support HWID activation.

-   ServerRdsh edition does not [officially](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/windows-10-multisession-faq#can-i-run-windows-10-enterprise-multi-session-on-premises) support activation on non-azure systems.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Command line Switches

-   Check [here](command_line_switches.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Manual Activation

The process here is based on Universal ticket method. Here we will create identical tickets which are used in MAS HWID script and activate the system with it.

-   Download file from the below official MS link and extract this .cab file.\
    <https://download.microsoft.com/download/9/A/E/9AE69DD5-BA93-44E0-864E-180F5E700AB4/adk/Installers/14f4df8a2a7fc82a4f415cf6a341415d.cab>

-   Find the file named `filf8377e82b29deadca67bc4858ed3fba9` and rename it as `gatherosstate.exe`

-   Make a folder named `Files` in C drive, `C:\Files` and copy the `gatherosstate.exe` file in that folder.

-   Make sure the Internet is enabled.

-   Open Windows Powershell as administrator, and enter the following listed commands in the sequence in which they are given.

-   Enter the Key, (Replace `<key>` with the key from the above list) with the following command

`slmgr /ipk <key>`

-   Copy the below code all at once and enter it in PowerShell to modify the `gatherosstate.exe` file.

<!-- -->

    $bytes  = [System.IO.File]::ReadAllBytes("C:\Files\gatherosstate.exe")
    $bytes[320] = 0xf8
    $bytes[321] = 0xfb
    $bytes[322] = 0x05
    $bytes[324] = 0x03
    $bytes[13672] = 0x25
    $bytes[13674] = 0x73
    $bytes[13676] = 0x3b
    $bytes[13678] = 0x00
    $bytes[13680] = 0x00
    $bytes[13682] = 0x00
    $bytes[13684] = 0x00
    $bytes[32748] = 0xe9
    $bytes[32749] = 0x9e
    $bytes[32750] = 0x00
    $bytes[32751] = 0x00
    $bytes[32752] = 0x00
    $bytes[32894] = 0x8b
    $bytes[32895] = 0x44
    $bytes[32897] = 0x64
    $bytes[32898] = 0x85
    $bytes[32899] = 0xc0
    $bytes[32900] = 0x0f
    $bytes[32901] = 0x85
    $bytes[32902] = 0x1c
    $bytes[32903] = 0x02
    $bytes[32904] = 0x00
    $bytes[32906] = 0xe9
    $bytes[32907] = 0x3c
    $bytes[32908] = 0x01
    $bytes[32909] = 0x00
    $bytes[32910] = 0x00
    $bytes[32911] = 0x85
    $bytes[32912] = 0xdb
    $bytes[32913] = 0x75
    $bytes[32914] = 0xeb
    $bytes[32915] = 0xe9
    $bytes[32916] = 0x69
    $bytes[32917] = 0xff
    $bytes[32918] = 0xff
    $bytes[32919] = 0xff
    $bytes[33094] = 0xe9
    $bytes[33095] = 0x80
    $bytes[33096] = 0x00
    $bytes[33097] = 0x00
    $bytes[33098] = 0x00
    $bytes[33449] = 0x64
    $bytes[33576] = 0x8d
    $bytes[33577] = 0x54
    $bytes[33579] = 0x24
    $bytes[33580] = 0xe9
    $bytes[33581] = 0x55
    $bytes[33582] = 0x01
    $bytes[33583] = 0x00
    $bytes[33584] = 0x00
    $bytes[33978] = 0xc3
    $bytes[34189] = 0x59
    $bytes[34190] = 0xeb
    $bytes[34191] = 0x28
    $bytes[34238] = 0xe9
    $bytes[34239] = 0x4f
    $bytes[34240] = 0x00
    $bytes[34241] = 0x00
    $bytes[34242] = 0x00
    $bytes[34346] = 0x24
    $bytes[34376] = 0xeb
    $bytes[34377] = 0x63
    [System.IO.File]::WriteAllBytes("C:\Files\gatherosstatemodified.exe", $bytes)

-   Now right click on the file `gatherosstatemodified.exe` and goto properties and set the compatibility to Windows XP SP3.\
-   Now we need to generate the ticket, to do that, enter the below command.

<!-- -->

    $value = (Get-ItemProperty HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\ProductOptions).OSProductPfn

    C:\Files\gatherosstatemodified.exe /c Pfn=$value`;DownlevelGenuineState=1

-   A GenuineTicket.xml file should be created in the folder `C:\Files\` now let's apply it.

`clipup -v -o -altto C:\Files\`

-   Activate Windows with the following command:

`slmgr /ato`

-   Check Activation Status with the following command:

`slmgr /xpr`

-   Done.

**Notes:**

-   If the system is already activated then created ticket will be a Lockbox ticket and if not then it will be a Downlevel ticket.

-   To make the exact ticket used in MAS HWID script, make sure system is already activated and fix the time with below Powershell command and then initiate the ticket generation process as per above mentioned steps.\
    `$date=[datetime]"2022/10/11 12:00";while($true){set-date $date; start-sleep -milliseconds 10}`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Setup Preactivate

-   Check the Extract OEM option in the MAS `Extras` section if you want pre-activated Windows installation.

-   Further, read [here](oem-folder.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Troubleshooting

-   Reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/gjJEfq7ux8) (signup not required) with an error screenshot.
